#summary nPanel: How it works and why
#labels Featured
= nPanel: How it works and why. =

== Introduction ==

  nPanel was first meant for wireless networks, especially commercial hot-spots so that we provide an easy interface for the network administrator to manage the network users through nPanel and have a PoS for the users to pay for the service provided, However by the time the project first draft implementation was made.

  We've seen that there is also a need for more than just wireless networks, so we decided to redesign the project based upon two main factors, one is scalability and the other is modularity so we ended up with a system design that is so much flexible that you could make use of it in any kind of situation you got, and could be installed on only 1 server or as many as you could afford.


== Details ==

  nPanel consists mainly of a front-end and a back-end, the front-end is in the form of a php website, and the back-end is in the form of a Linux daemon, however there is a lot of modules which some belong to the front-end and some for the back-end. So in less words here we got the basic components that is included in nPanel...

  * Back-end
    * [nPanelMHM MHM] `[`Modules Handler Module`]`
    * [nPanelFBCCM FBCCM] `[`Frontend/Backend Cryptographic Communications Module`]`
    * [nPanelnPPM nPPM] `[`nPanel Protocol Module`]`
    * [nPanelnPCPM nPCPM] `[`nPanel Configuration Parsing Module`]`
    * [nPanelATCM ATCM] `[`Authentication and Traffic Control Module`]`

  * Front-end
    * [nPanelMHM MHM] `[`Modules Handler Module`]`
    * [nPanelFBCCM FBCCM] `[`Frontend/Backend Cryptographic Communications Module`]`
    * [nPanelnPPM nPPM] `[`nPanel Protocol Module`]`
    * [nPanelnPCPM nPCPM] `[`nPanel Configuration Parsing Module`]`
    * [nPanelATCM ATCM] `[`Authentication and Traffic Control Module`]`

  As we can see each module in the back-end got its corresponding module in the front-end. Without the front-end module being installed the corresponding back-end module will remain inactive.

== Modules ==

  [nPanelMHM MHM] is designed to handle the different modules that going to be installed, for the back-end it is going to work in terms of DLLs, there is absolutely no need to even restart the back-end daemon, all you would have to do is install the new module and the daemon will automatically detect the installed module and load it in memory. As for the front-end each module will have it's own folder inside the "modules" folder, the front-end core will also check for newly installed modules and automatically load them.

  [nPanelFBCCM FBCCM] is the infrastructure security for the project, it will use RSA public key algorithm to fully encrypt the traffic between the front-end and the back-end, and that doesn't only apply to remote back-ends, it will even apply for the locally installed back-end, it is indeed an overhead but a needed overhead nonetheless in today's world of insecurity and misuse.

  [nPanelnPPM nPPM] this module is responsible for the communication protocol and data transmission between the front-end(s) and the back-end(s), it is designed carefully to make it as hard as possible for any type of tampering (that's putting in mind that an attacker has successfully broken RSA) by means of using SHA256 checksum algorithm plus an agreed upon salt that is going to be exchanged in the first phase of back-end registration, so that an attacker has to mount a MITM attack at the moment the front-end registers the back-end. Of course all that has to be done with the assumption that an attacker we successful in breaking the underlining RSA encryption.

  [nPanelnPCPM nPCPM] This simply is the configuration parsing module, it is used to read the configurations needed before the back-end or front-end initialization phase.

  [nPanelATCM ATCM] This is an *OPTIONAL* module, we developed it as a demonstration of what could be done with such system, it is mainly used to authenticate and optionally shape the traffic for the network users, it doesn't really matter if it is a wireless or a wired network, it will work on any type of network, one exception is that all users must not be NAT'ed. It is like none of the similar solutions out there, it requires no program installation whatsoever, you will only have to authenticate once through the front-end module and allow ICMP protocol packets between the network users and the server.

----